# What's new for Domino REST API v1.1.6

Release date: November 18, 2025

!!! danger "If you are upgrading from Domino REST API v1.1.2 or an earlier version, refer to important information regarding [CORS using Regex](v1.1.3.md#cors-is-now-using-regex)."

## New features

- Added the `POST v1/queryformula` endpoint that allows sending a formula-based query to retrieve Domino documents, optionally starting from a specified point in time.

- Added the console command `tell restapi support -includedumps` for creating a support package, including the Java Dump file, the dump file of the active Java heap, and the full dump file of the active JVM. For more information, see [Domino REST API task](../references/usingdominorestapi/restapitask.md).

- Added the console command `tell restapi support -includensf -includedumps` for creating a support package, including `KeepConfig.nsf`, the Java Dump file, the dump file of the active Java heap, and the full dump file of the active JVM. For more information, see [Domino REST API task](../references/usingdominorestapi/restapitask.md).

- Added a **Show Active** toggle to the **Database Forms**, **Database Views**, and **Database Agents** tabs in the **Admin UI**, allowing users to quickly filter and display only active forms, views, and agents.

## Improvements

- The Domino REST API has been enhanced to deliver better performance, with faster response times achieved through more efficient processing. Request handling has also been optimized to provide greater reliability, resulting in an improved user experience.

- Added the `includeEmptyRows` query parameter to the `GET v1/lists/{name}` endpoint. When set to *true*, this parameter includes rows without any column data in the returned result array.

- A toast notification now appears in the upper-right corner of the **Admin UI** to inform users of non-JSON errors that occur when an action, such as activating a view, fails. Users can dismiss the toast notification by clicking the close icon.

- A pop-up notification now appears to alert users of invalid credentials when Domino or the Domino REST API is restarted while the user is logged into the **Admin UI**, or when the user logs out from the **Admin UI** in another tab or window. Clicking **OK** on the pop-up redirects the user to the **Admin UI** login page for re-authentication. This prevents users from taking actions with expired or invalid credentials caused by the restart or logout, ensuring secure and valid access at all times.

- A pop-up notification now appears on the **Admin UI** login page to tell users about CORS-related errors they encounter while logging in.

- The `plaintext` query parameter has been added to the `GET pim-v1/message/{unid}/body` endpoint. When setting the parameter to `true`, the endpoint returns the message body as plain text. When setting to `false` or when no value is specified, the endpoint returns the message body as HTML.

    Additionally, the `content-type` has been updated to return `text/html` when the message body is returned as HTML and `text/plain` when the message body is returned as plain text.

- Users can now use a JSON pointer parameter with the `tell restapi config` console command to display a specific configuration value instead of the entire JSON configuration. The parameter can be any first-level JSON key in the JSON configuration.

    For example, running `tell restapi config oidc`, where `oidc` is the parameter, shows only the effective configuration for the *oidc* section of the configuration. This makes it easier to access targeted settings without viewing the full configuration.

- Users are now redirected to the **Admin UI** login page for re-authentication whenever a Domino REST API call returns a *401 Unauthorized* error due to an expired JWT token.

## Others

- Installer jar files:
  
    - For Domino 14.5: *restapiInstall-r145.jar*
    - For Domino 14: *restapiInstall-r14.jar*
    - For Domino 12: *restapiInstall-r12.jar*

- Docker image version for docker compose .env file (CONTAINER_IMAGE):
  
    - For Domino 14.5: *domino-rest-api:1.1.6-r145*
    - For Domino 14: *domino-rest-api:1.1.6-r14*
    - For Domino 12: *domino-rest-api:1.1.6-r12*

- Docker image version for docker compose .env file from Harbor:
  
    - For Domino 14.5: *hclcr.io/domino/restapi:1.1.6-r145*
    - For Domino 14: *hclcr.io/domino/restapi:1.1.6-r14*
    - For Domino 12: *hclcr.io/domino/restapi:1.1.6-r12*
