# What's new for Domino REST API v1.1.4

Release date: June 16, 2025

<!--## New features-->
## Improvements

- Added a text on the **Formula for Write Access** card on **Mode Settings** in the **Admin UI** to indicate whether *Computed with Form* method is enabled or disabled.
- Added a **Continue on Error** toggle on the **Formula for Write Access** dialog in the **Admin UI** to allow process continuation even if the document validation fails. The **Continue on Error** toggle is only enabled when the **Compute with Form** toggle is set to the on position or if the schema item isn't available.

    For more information, see [Set computed with form](../howto/production/computeform.md).

- Enhanced the `POST setup-v1/design/nsf` endpoint to make schema creation optional. When no schema name is provided for the `dataSource` parameter when calling the endpoint, no new schema is created. Additionally, a new schema isn't created for the new Domino database when it's created from a template that has a schema with the same name as the one specified for the `dataSource` parameter.

- Added the `quickConfigSchema` query parameter to the `POST setup-v1/design/nsf` endpoint. When set to *true*, this parameter enables the created schema to be fully configured.

- Added the `checkAccess` query parameter to the `GET v1/userinfo` endpoint that checks the current user’s access level, including the user's role, to the provided scopes. It's important to note that the check considers the scope’s maximum access level. This means that if the user's access level is higher than the set maximum access level of the scope, the check result will indicate the scope's maximum access level as the user's access level to the scope. If it's lower, then the check result will indicate the user's access level.  

<!--## Breaking changes-->
## Resolved issues

- A **503 Service Unavailable** error occurred when the `tell restapi refresh` command was issued, and no other restapi task command was accepted until the `tell restapi refresh` command was reissued.

- Filtering a `date-time` field in OData didn't work as expected and generated an error.

## Others

- Added procedure for accessing Domino OData in Microsoft Excel[^1] [for Mac](../tutorial/odata/excel.md#for-mac) in the OData tutorial.

- Installer jar files:
  
    - For Domino 14: _restapiInstall-r14.jar_
    - For Domino 12: _restapiInstall-r12.jar_

- Docker image version for docker compose .env file (CONTAINER_IMAGE):
  
    - For Domino 14: _domino-rest-api:1.1.4-r14_
    - For Domino 12: _domino-rest-api:1.1.4-r12_

- Docker image version for docker compose .env file from Harbor:
  
    - For Domino 14: _hclcr.io/domino/restapi:1.1.4-r14_
    - For Domino 12: _hclcr.io/domino/restapi:1.1.4-r12_

[^1]: Microsoft and Excel are registered trademarks or trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and/or other countries.